Nuclear Masses Toolkit (NMT) Java Swing Desktop Client Application

The Nuclear Masses Toolkit provides a one-stop-shop for management, statistical comparison, and visualization of large scale nuclear physics data sets.

A knowledge of the masses of subatomic nuclei forms a crucial foundation for research in basic and applied nuclear science, as well as in astrophysics. New accelerator facilities and new detection systems have enabled researchers around the world to make more, and much more precise, nuclear mass measurements. Freely available at the website nuclearmasses.org, the Nuclear Masses Toolkit (NMT) enables research scientists and non-experts the ability to share, visualize, and analyze nuclear mass information in a robust and intuitive way. Once registered, NMT users can upload mass datasets, store them, and share them with colleagues as well as compare mass datasets with ones from peer-reviewed research. The NMT’s suite of visualization tools allows users to quickly and easily create highly customized data views of several quantities and their differences when compared to other datasets. The data views not only include 1D plots but also interactive 2D plots on the chart of the nuclides that compare values such as mass excess, Q-values, and separation energies. Datasets may also be analyzed by average RMS differences and RMS difference as a function of atomic number, neutron number, and mass number. Pandia Software currently maintains and enhances the NMT with collaborators from the ORNL Physics Division.
